# PyBer_Analysis

## Challenge Analysis

### Summary Data Frame:
The summary data frame shows total rides, total drivers, total fares, average fare per ride, and average fare per driver by city type (rural, suburban, urban) for the peer-to-peer ride-share company Pyber. Urban areas make up the most significant market share, whereas rural regions make up the smallest share. More drivers work in urban areas for Pyber than in rural areas. The driver-ride ratio increases transitioning from rural to urban areas. Total fares follow the same pattern as total rides; rural rides generate the least amount of revenue, while urban areas make the most revenue total. However, the rural rides on average, are the most expensive, while urban rides are the least costly. The average fare per ride trend by city type follows the driver-ride ratio by city type; as more drivers enter the market area, the cost of the ride goes down, i.e., there is a greater supply of rides. Thus, the average fare per driver in rural areas increases, and urban areas, it decreases. 

### Line Graph Summary:
The line graph Fare by Month shows the total daily fare by city type over an interval of four months in 2019 (January - April). The graph confirms the summary data frame in that urban areas have played a more significant role in generating revenues for Pyner than rural ones. However, in the line graph, one can see the total daily changes over the four months rather than the end total of the period in the data frame. The chart also shows some correlation in peaks and dips between city types at specific periods. Note near the end of February, all three total fares peak. While there needs to be more research, the graph suggests such simultaneous dips and peaks are due to events. Another instance appears in the middle of January. Rural and suburban fares peak while urban ones drop; I speculate in this instance an even only occurring in the rural and suburban areas was affecting traffic while not affecting urban traffic, which experienced a decline.

### Conclusion:
The line graph shows the data frame summary's total fares over a period, where the data frame's total fares is a snapshot at the end of the period. Both the data frame summary and line graph confirm that the urban market creates greater revenue than the rural market for Pyber. Rural areas have high fare prices, and urban areas have higher ride turnover. However, the period analysis is limited. One is only able to see the period of January 2019 through Aprile 2019. It would be better to look at entire different years and make comparisons to see seasonality changes in total rides, e.g., 2015-2020. It would also be good to compare the same period, such as January over a certain number of years, e.g., January 2015, January 2016, et cetera. Another limiting factor is that we do not know what Pyber's competitors are doing and how their actions affect rides and fare prices. Thus the market's total number of rides across companies is unknown, and market share is unknown. One is unable to tell if there is an inefficiency in Pyber's rural market suggested by higher prices and fewer drivers, the cost of business is higher in rural areas, or perhaps ride distances are different, or demand for rides in rural areas are indeed that low. While the metrics have shown to be helpful so far, what would be more helpful would be to look at fare per mile as well as other things such as driver's car type, e.g., electric, hybrid, compact, SUV.
